.TH "DMUUID" "1" "" "Version 2.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dmuuid \(en generates pseudo\-random UUIDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f[B]dmuuid\f[R] \-\-help
.PP
\f[B]dmuuid\f[R] \-\-version
.PP
\f[B]dmuuid\f[R] [\-\-\f[B]count\f[R] \f[I]n\f[R]]
[\-\-\f[B]hyphens\f[R]]
.PP
\f[B]dmuuid\f[R] \-\-\f[B]convert\f[R] < \f[I]file\f[R]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f[B]dmuuid\f[R] program generates pseudo\-random UUIDs.
By default, DMPACK uses 32 characters long UUIDv4 identifers in
hexadecimal format (without hyphens).
If command\-line flag \f[CR]\-\-hyphens\f[R] is set, 36 characters long
identifiers with hyphens are returned.
The option \f[CR]\-\-convert\f[R] expects UUIDs to be passed via
standard input.
Invalid identifiers will be replaced with the default UUIDv4.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f[B]\-\-convert\f[R], \f[B]\-c\f[R]
Add hyphens to hexadecimal UUIDs passed via \f[I]stdin\f[R].
.TP
\f[B]\-\-count\f[R], \f[B]\-n\f[R] \f[I]n\f[R]
Number of UUIDs to generate (default: 1).
.TP
\f[B]\-\-help\f[R], \f[B]\-h\f[R]
Print available command\-line arguments and quit.
.TP
\f[B]\-\-hyphens\f[R], \f[B]\-p\f[R]
Return 36 characters long UUIDs with hyphens.
.TP
\f[B]\-\-version\f[R], \f[B]\-v\f[R]
Print version information and quit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\f[B]0\f[R]
Success.
UUID generation was successful.
.TP
\f[B]1\f[R]
Failure.
UUID generation failed.
.SH EXAMPLE
Create three random identifiers:
.IP
.EX
$ dmuuid \-n 3
6827049760c545ad80d4082cc50203e8
ad488d0b8edd4c6c94582e702a810ada
3d3eee7ae1fb4259b5df72f854aaa369
.EE
.PP
Add hyphens to a hexadecimal UUIDv4:
.IP
.EX
$ echo \(dq3d3eee7ae1fb4259b5df72f854aaa369\(dq | dmuuid \-c
3d3eee7a\-e1fb\-4259\-b5df\-72f854aaa369
.EE
